# Multi-Cycle-Processor-1

The entire Multi Cycle processor is divided into the different modules

  * Unified Memory
  * Display Interface
  * Clock Divider and Debouncer
  * ALU_Flags
  * Control FSM and Execution FSM
  * Instruction Decoder 
  * Register File
  * Rotor_Shifter and Multiplier
  
These modules are connected in the **Multi_Cycle_Processor.vhd** by connecting wires across the different boxes corresponding to them (by writing codes). This is supposed to be set as the Top Module in the **Xilinx Vivado** which is to be used to running the entire structure. It also has the Control signals for considering the different functionalities of the different modules as per the conditions of the different states or instructions etc.

A sample **coe** file is given which is run by this program. Please go through it once. It corresponds to the code **Lab12.s**. The Unified Memory is to be generated by creating a RAM module from the Vivado toolbox. 

The **DisplayInterface.vhd** is the display interface of the module. It represents the Value which will be supposed to be viewed in the 16 LEDS in the BASYS3 FPGA. The selection of the particular value to be viewed is done by the **slide_display** input. The mapping for the **slide_display** and the Value viewed can be found in the **DisplayInterface.vhd**. 

The input **Onestepin** corresponds to the program being evaluated step-wise, while **Goin** corresponds to the entire program being evaluated all at once and **Oneinstrin** executes the program per one instruction. 

The **Control_FSM.vhd** has the process for the Control states as well as the Exception types. The **Execution_FSM.vhd** has the process for the Execution of the program according to the **Red** and **Green** flags set by te Control State FSM and the Step, Go etc. inputs provided for the different types of execution of the program

**Instruction_Decoder.vhd** decodes the 32 bit input instruction, **Multiplier.vhd** carry out the multiplication instructions, **Rotor_Shifter.vhd** carry out the rotation and shifting instructions, and **ALU_Flags.vhd** is for the other computations as well as updating the flags according to the type of computations involved and their results.

**RegisterFile.vhd** has all contents of all the **r0 - r15** registers, as well as the **CPSR** and **SPSR** registers. It also reads and writes the values of the registers. 

The **clk_div.vhd** is for the clock division and the **Debouncer.vhd** is for solving the debouncing error, for having an efficient way to view the operations in real time using buttons in the FPGA. The **display.xdc** is the constraint file, having the mapping of the FPGA buttons, LEDS etc with the input and output variables of the Top Module. Go through it while trying to use the program.

This entire application can be run by generating a bit file corresponding to this in Vivado and then running it on a FPGA. Note that the coe file is to be loaded in the memory while creating it
